docs: add Codex CLI integration documentation (alpha) (#5545)
meta-llama/llama-stack: docs/docs/building_applications/codex_cli_integration.mdx

## Configuration

### Model Compatibility

Choose models that support OpenAI Chat Completions format:
- ✅ `openai/gpt-4o`, `openai/gpt-4o-mini`
- ✅ `anthropic/claude-3-5-sonnet-20241022`
- ❌ `gpt-5.4` (Responses-only, no Chat Completions support)

## Known Limitations

Current limitations of this alpha integration:

1. **No memory persistence**: Conversation history isn't saved between Codex sessions
2. **Limited error handling**: Some provider-specific errors may not surface clearly
3. **Performance overhead**: Additional proxy layer adds latency

## Troubleshooting

**"Model not found" errors**: Verify the model ID format matches your provider (e.g., `openai/gpt-4o`)

**Request compression errors**: The integration uses zstd compression. Ensure your Llama Stack distribution supports request decompression.

**Tool execution failures**: Check that Codex has proper permissions for file/shell operations.

## Future Development

Planned improvements:
- **Memory API integration**: Persistent conversation storage
- **Enhanced error messages**: Better debugging information
- **Performance optimizations**: Reduced proxy overhead

---

> For more information about Llama Stack's provider architecture, see [Providers Overview](/docs/providers). For Codex CLI documentation, visit the [Codex GitHub repository](https://github.com/vortex-labs/codex).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about Llama Stack's provider architecture, see [Providers Overview](/docs/providers). For Codex CLI documentation, visit the [Codex GitHub repository](https://github.com/openai/codex).
```

# Codex CLI Integration (Alpha)

Llama Stack can act as a proxy server for [Codex CLI](https://github.com/vortex-labs/codex), enabling you to use your existing Codex workflows while leveraging Llama Stack's unified provider architecture and conversation compaction features.

:::warning Alpha Feature
This integration is in early development (alpha status). While core functionality works well, some features like memory persistence are not yet supported. Configuration may change in future releases.
:::

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Start Llama Stack with Codex support
export OPENAI_API_KEY="your-key-here"

> llama stack run starter --port 8321

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
llama stack run starter
```

8321 is already the default

# 2. Configure Codex CLI
cat > ~/.codex/config.toml << EOF
model = "openai/gpt-4o"
model_provider = "llama-stack"

[model_providers.llama-stack]
name = "OpenAI"
base_url = "http://localhost:8321/v1"
wire_api = "responses"
supports_websockets = false
EOF

# 3. Test the integration
codex "Write a hello world function in Python"
```

## How It Works

The integration works as a proxy chain: **Codex CLI → Llama Stack → LLM Provider (OpenAI, etc.)**

Key benefits:
- **Unified provider access**: Use any Llama Stack-supported provider through Codex
- **Conversation compaction**: Automatic compression of long conversation histories
- **Consistent APIs**: Leverage Llama Stack's standardized provider interface
- **Tool execution**: Full support for shell commands, file operations, and code generation

## Configuration

> ### Codex CLI Setup

Reviewer 2: why do we have this section again?

Author: was just for search i think i can remove.
